Introduction to Computer Graphics - 2025/2026 


Three.js - Project 

Project Proposal on Moodle until March 20 (PDF, 1 A4 page, max.) 

Intermediate Presentations: April 14 and April 16 

Final Presentations: May 21 and May 28 / May 26 and June 2 

The projects are designed and developed individually, not as group work. 

The delivered project must be original. 

In addition to the files distributed in the classes, existing code or libraries may be used, provided their origin is clearly referenced in the code. 

Projects that use a large volume of non-original code, without explicit reference, will not be accepted. 


Use of AI Tools 

The use of Al tools is allowed for the development of project ideas and coding assistance, but should be acknowledged (project proposal, code files, and presentation slides). 

Simple example: 

Al tools were integrated in project development and coding. 

The following were used: 

OpenAI. (2026). ChatGPT [Large language model]. https://chat.openai.com 

GitHub. (2026). GitHub Copilot [AI coding assistant]. https://github.com/features/copilot 


Project Proposal on Moodle until March 20 (PDF, 1 A4 page, max.) 

Each student must submit a proposal for the development of a 3D application demonstrating the modeling and animation of objects, and the use of illumination, textures, etc. in a scenario of choice, with interactivity / control by the user (keyboard and mouse). 

If you do not succeed in defining your own project proposal, contact Prof. Joaquim Madeira, who will assign you a project from a list of project ideas. 


Intermediate Presentations in Mid-April 

A presentation of the project status and a live demonstration of the already available functionalities (ca. 7 minutes in total). 


Final Project Delivery on Moodle until May 26 

In addition to the code, you have to deliver a video and the slides of your presentation, describing the main aspects of both the application developed and the work done. 

A skeleton of the presentation slides (i.e., their format) will be available on Moodle. 

The project should be made available on the Web, so that it can be easily run. 

Delivered code should be self-contained, so that it can be easily set up on any computer. 


Project Presentations at the End of the Semester 

A presentation of the project and a live demonstration of the application developed (ca. 12 minutes in total).